I am a mathematical evolutionary biologist broadly interested in how evolutionary processes produce and maintain genetic diversity. My research is driven by my fascination with how feedbacks between ecology (the distribution and abundance of organisms) and evolution (changes in allele frequencies) can generate and maintain genetic diversity. As a graduate student, I studied sexual selection in visual patterning with darters, a diverse group of North American freshwater fish. I used mathematical image analysis to understand how environmental variation can generate diversity in spatial components of visual patterning. For my postdoctoral research, I study how eco-evolutionary feedbacks can maintain genetic diversity in host-pathogen systems. Host-pathogen systems are a natural place to ask such questions, as changes in host density, resistance, or pathogen virulence can rapidly alter the selective landscape. This research has focused on how organisms maintain genetic variation in their susceptibility to novel “spillover” pathogens which they have not coevolved with. As a postdoc, I have also pursued independent research directions, developing a theoretical genetic model of how evolutionary tradeoffs emerge. My approach theoretical questions with a deep appreciation of empirical study, gained both from working in natural systems and working within empirical labs. I aim to not only produce theory that expands on our understanding of evolutionary processes but do so in a way that is comprehensible to the broader ecology and evolutionary biology community. 
